Here speaks the wartime channel.
This country has been attacked with nuclear weapons.
The number of victims and the damage is not yet known.
Keep listening on this wavelength, stay calm and stay inside.
This is the core bunker at Kelvedon Hatch in Essex, and that is Greg of the
BBC's BritLab reading the actual script that a BBC newsreader would have broadcast from
somewhere if the cold war had become hot. In that case, this would be
one of the 25 regional seats of the government have been: This is where volunteers would have tried
to get out of the nuclear war and lead the country through .. Well, what follows.
Their work was not to save lives immediately: if you were in the blast of a
nuclear bomb did not survive long. But in the days and weeks after that would be one of them
goals have been to predict the fallout. The radioactive material and debris that had been blown into the atmosphere
by nuclear bombs. They would determine when survivors left their house - or what
about leaving their home - could leave without too much risk of radiation sickness and
what civil defense still existed.
But how would they have determined that, down here in a bunker while the world was literally ending?
above their heads?
Mainly they had special peephole cameras above the ground: a tin can
with a few holes in it and a photographic film on the inside. The blinding flash of one
nuclear weapon would leave a mark on the photographic film. It would get a print with the outline
and the height. The plan was that a poor wretch would leave the bunker,
the film would pick up, and then they would do triangulation with other bunkers and find out: A blast close to the ground
that produces local fallout, an explosion in the air that spreads much wider, where, when? They could
measure the pressure waves, the shock wave when it came through with the help of relatively simple ones
instruments, and then they could figure out what the power of the bomb was. They would all merge them
on this big board, and then they would be using that, weather reports and reports
other small, remote bunkers start making terrible calculations.
In some bunkers, like this one, they had AWDREY, an electronic system. AWDREY
means the Nuclear Weapon Detection Recognition and Estimation of Strength, and someone must
very proud of that acronym.
It was all relatively optimistic, however strange that sounds. It would be a disaster, they said,
but we will help people through it, we will have weather reports and we will
local government centers have to keep everything together. But Great Britain is a small, densely populated one
country. Our national archive has a list of what our government thought Soviet
goals would be: Every big city, every military base. It can be said that not many people
could only survive for two days, and very few would have lasted for a month,
let alone a year. And there was nothing anyone on the planet could have done in the case
of a global nuclear war - it would change the climate and be a mass extinction like event.
But in what was called a limited exchange there would be places in Britain that could have
survive outside the blasting area, such as remote areas, and perhaps a few coastal towns like Brighton
and Aberystwyth which are far from strategic goals. And maybe some of us,
using here, have survived.
I do some videos together with BBC BritLab.
If you want to see what this mess is about, you can click on the link on the screen or in the description.
I almost had you.
We repeat this broadcast in two hours.
Stay tuned to this wavelength and do your radio for now
to save the batteries until we broadcast again.
This is the end of the broadcast.